This style sheet has been provided to assist students  studying sociology in properly citing and referencing their  papers and essays. The information in this document is  taken from the American Sociological Association   Style  Guide   (4th ed., 2010). We highly encourage students who  plan to major in sociology or pursue their masters degree  in sociology to purchase the complete   Style Guide , which  features sections on editorial styles, mechanics of style,  guidelines for organizing and presenting content, and more  detailed information on referencing your scholarly sources.  Information about the ASA   Style Guide   can be found at  www.asanet.org/journals/guides.cfm.  Plagiarism  The ASA has a firm commitment to full and proper attri -  bution and authorship credit, as set forth in the ASA   Code  of Ethics .  (a) In publications, presentations, teaching practice, and  service, sociologists explicitly identify credit, and refer -  ence the author when they take data or material verbatim  from another person’s written work, whether it is pub -  lished, unpublished, or electronically available.  (b) In their publications, presentations, teaching, prac -  tice, and service, sociologists provide acknowledgment of  and reference to the use of others’ work, even if the work  is not quoted verbatim or paraphrased, and they do not  present others’ work as their own whether it is published,  unpublished, or electronically available.  Text Citations  Citations in the text include the last name of the author(s)  and year of publication. Include page numbers when quoting  directly from a work or referring to specific passages. Identify  subsequent citations of the same source in the same way as  the first. Examples follow:  If the   author’s name is in the text , follow it with the pub -  lication year in parentheses:  …in another study by Duncan (1959).  If the   author’s name is not in the text , enclose the last  name and publication year in parentheses:  …whenever it occurred (Gouldner 1963).  Pagination   follows the year of publication after a colon,  with no space between the colon and the page number:  …Kuhn (1970:71).  Note : This is the preferred ASA style. Older forms of text  citations are not acceptable: (Kuhn 1970, p. 71).  Give both last names for joint authors:  … (Martin and Bailey 1988).  If a work has   three authors , cite all three last names in the  first citation in the text; thereafter, use et al. in the citation.  If a work has   more than three   authors, use et al. in the first  citation and in all subsequent citations.  First citation for a work with three authors :  …had been lost (Carr, Smith, and Jones 1962).  Later : …(Carr et al. 1962)  If a work cited was reprinted from a version published  earlier, list the earliest publication date in  brackets, followed by the publication date of the recent  version used.  …Veblen ([1899] 1979) stated that…  Separate a series of references with semicolons. List  the series in alphabetical or date order, but be consistent  throughout the manuscript.  … (Green 1995; Mundi 1987; Smith and Wallop 1989).  Reference Lists  A reference list follows the text and footnotes in a sepa -  rate section headed References. All references cited in the  text must be listed in the reference section, and vice versa.  It is the author’s responsibility to ensure that publication  information for each entry is complete and correct.  ◆ References should be   double-spaced .  ◆ List all references in   alphabetical order   by first author’s  last name  Quick Tips  for ASA Style

◆ Include   first names   and   surnames   for all authors. Use  first-name initials only if an author used initials in the  original publication. In these cases, add a space between  the initials, as in R. B. Brown and M. L. B. Smith.  (See additional guidelines in the full text of the American  Sociological Association   Style Guide .)  Books  Author1   (last name inverted),   Author2   (including full  surname, last name is not inverted), and   Author3 .   Year of  publication .   Name of Publication   (italicized).   Publisher’s  city and state, or province postal code (or name of  country if a foreign publisher) :   Publisher’s Name .  Examples:  Bursik, Robert J., Jr. and Harold G. Grasmick. 1993.   Neigh -  borhoods and Crime: The Dimensions of Effective Commu -  nity Control . New York: Lexington Books.  Hagen, John and Ruth D. Peterson, eds. 1995.   Crime and  Inequality . Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.  Jaynes, Gerald D. and Robin M. Williams, Jr. 1989.   A Com -  mon Destiny: Blacks and American Society . Washington,  DC: National Academy Press.  Journal Articles  Author1   (Last name inverted),   Author2   (including full  surname, last name is not inverted), and   Author3 . Year  of publication . “ Title of Article .”   Name of Publication  (italicized)   Volume Number   ( Issue Number ): Page num -  bers of article .  Examples:  Aseltine, Robert H., Jr. and Ronald C. Kessler. 1993. “Mari -  tal Disruption and Depression in a Community Sample.”  Journal of Health and Social Behavior   34(3):237-51.  Kalleberg, Arne L., Barbara F. Reskin, and Ken Hudson.  2000. “Bad Jobs in America: Standard and Nonstandard  Employment Relations and Job Quality in the United  States.”   American Sociological Review   65(2):256-78.  E-Resources  Articles and books obtained from the Internet follow the  same pattern as those cited above, with the exception that  page numbers are omitted and the URL and date of access  are included.  Examples:  Schafer, Daniel W. and Fred L. Ramsey. 2003. “Teaching  the Craft of Data Analysis.”   Journal of Statistics Education  11(1). Retrieved December 12, 2006 (http://www.amstat.  org/publications/jse/v11n1/schafer.html).  Thomas, Jan E., ed. 2005.   Incorporating the Woman Found -  ers into Classical Theory Courses . Washington DC: Ameri -  can Sociological Association. Retrieved December 12,  2006 (http://www.enoah.net/ASA/ASAshopOnlineSer -  vice/ProductDetails.aspx?.productID=ASAOE378T05E).  Web sites  A general rule may be applied to citing of Web sites: If the  Web site contains data or evidence essential to a point being  addressed in the manuscript, it should be formally cited  with the URL and date of access.  In the text of the paper cite as : (ASA 2006)  In the reference list :  American Sociological Association 2006. “Status Commit -  tees.” Washington, DC: American Sociological Associa -  tion. Retrieved December 12, 2006 (http://www.asanet.  org/cs/root/leftnav/committees/committees).  For information or to purchase a copy of the ASA   Style  Guide , please contact:  Publications Department  American Sociological Association  1430 K Street NW, Suite 600  Washington, DC 20005  (202) 383-9005  (publications@asanet.org)  Click   here   to purchase a copy  of the ASA   Style Guide !